Core Subject Area 1 - Application Of The Scientific Method
1)	Defining The Question/Hypothesis
	a)	Soft Operational Research Methods
	b)	Stating Clear Assumptions
	c)	Defining the Scope & Boundary
2)	Data Science & Big Data Research
	a)	Researching What & How Much Data To Analyse
	b)	Identifying Key Data Attributes & Linking Back To The Question Defined
	c)	Exploratory Data Analyses
	d)	Creating A Data Dictionary And A Data Glossary
	e)	Identifying Data Parameters
3)	Modelling The Hypothesis - Types of Models To Consider
	a)	Static Models
	b)	Dynamic Models
	c)	Stochastic Models
	d)	Machine Learning Models
	e)	Predictive Models
	f)	Behavioural Models
	g)	Forecasting Models
	h)	Simulation Modelling
	i)	Optimisation Models
	j)	Decision Theory Models
	k)	Game Theory Models
	l)	Fuzzy System Models
4)	Testing The Model & Validating The Assumptions (Basic Statistics)
	a)	Null Hypothesis
	b)	Alternative Hypothesis
	c)	Interval Estimation
	d)	True Fit
	e)	Bias
	f)	Sensitivity
	g)	Significance
	h)	Margin of Error
	i)	Thresholds
	j)	Outliers
	k)	Standard Deviation
	l)	Variance
	m)	Sample Statistics versus Full Population Statistics in Big Data Analytics
5)	Interpretation Of The Results 
	a)	Reproducibility, Audit-ability and Trace-ability
6)	Concluding & Recommending
	a)	independent Peer Review
	b)	Availability Of Data

Core Subject Area 2 - Tools of the Trade
1.	Definition of Big Data (4 Vs: Volume, Velocity, Variety & Veracity)
2.	Big Data Hardware Overview
	a.	Structured Data Hardware: Relational Databases i.e. 3rd & 4th Normal Form Data Warehousing (Codd & Date), Operational Data Stores (Inmon), Dimensional Modelling (Kimball)
	b.	Unstructured Data Hardware (HDFS, Hadoop/MongoDB, MapReduce, Cassandra, Pig, Hive, Complex Event Processing)
	c.	Building a Technical Stack for both Structured & Unstructured Data
	d.	Cloud Computing
	e.	Software as a Service (SaaS)
3.	Data Science Programming Languages
	a.	R
	b.	Sql
	c.	Python
	d.	Java
4.	Data Visualisation Software
	a.	Reporting Software (Excel PowerPivot, Business Objects, Cognos etc)
	b.	Analytics Software (Tableau, Pivotal, Spotfire etc)
	c.	Advance Analytics Software (Matlab, SAS, SPSS etc)

Core Subject Area 3 - Interpersonal & Communication Skills
1)	Data Visualisation
	a)	Fundamentals of John R. Tukey
	b)	Fundamentals of Edward Tufte
2)	Using Infographics
	a)	Colour, Shade, Size & Shape
	b)	Miscommunication & Interpretation Ethics
3)	Communication Skills
	a)	Organisation 
	b)	Content
	c)	Structure
	d)	Body Language
	e)	Vocal Variety
	f)	Research Poster Presentations
	g)	Visual Aids and Presentation Technology
	h)	Persuasion and Inspiration
4)	Leadership Skills
	a)	Developing a Vision, Mission, Strategy & Goals
	b)	Choosing and Building a Team
	c)	Delegation & Task Setting
	d)	Measuring Strategic Performance (Balanced Scorecards)
	e)	Feedback and Evaluation
	f)	Mentoring & Succession Planning
5)	Consultancy & Project Management
	a)	Preparing & Producing a Bid for a Contract Of Services
	b)	Legal Terms Of Reference
	c)	A Statement Of Work
	d)	Service Delivery & Project Management
	e)	Project Reporting & Closure
	f)	Post-Service Support
